CONCLUSIONS
In our previous publication on DGEBA/PACM/D2000 blended
epoxies,26 we demonstrated that the room temperature ballistic
impact resistance for the blended formulations was improved
relative to the stoichiometric DGEBA/PACM or DGEBA/D2000
neat materials. Specifically, the DGEBA/PACM/D2000 blends
were optically transparent yet, dynamically heterogeneous with
two glass transitions including a rigid and flexible phase. In par-
ticular for these blends the impact performance was highest
when the blend morphology was near a phase inversion point
and exhibited a small characteristic length scale.
In this study, we expand on this previous research to systemati-
cally examine a detailed series of blended epoxy formulations
composed of DGEBA that is crosslinked with a mixture of a
rigid cycloaliphatic diamine (PACM) and a flexible polypropyl-
ene glycol based diamine (Jeffamine), where the Jeffamine
molecular weight was varied from 230, 400, 2000, and 4000 g/
mole. W e examined the influence of the flexible Jeffamine
molecular weight and composition on the mechanical and ther-
mal properties of the cured blends, as well as dynamic and
structural heterogeneity in these materials with a specific cure
protocol. In particular we demonstrated the following key
points:
/C15 The magnitude of the dynamic heterogeneity was con-
trolled by controlling the molecular weight of the Jeff-
amine and therefore the effective DT
g for the blend system ,
where DTg is defined as the difference between the neat stoi-
chiometric DGEBA/PACM Tg and DGEBA/Jeffamine Tg.A
single Tg was observed for DGEBA/PACM/D230 and
DGEBA/PACM/D400 mixtures having DTg’s of 80 8C and
130 8C, respectively. However, the DGEBA/PACM/D2000
blends ( DTg /C24 205 8C) were dynamically heterogeneous,
exhibiting two distinct Tg’s, corresponding to a high Tg
PACM rich phase and a low Tg D2000 rich phase. With the
DGEBA/PACM/D2000 blends both the high Tg phase and
low Tg phase exhibited a shift in Tg relative to the neat
DGEBA/PACM and DGEBA/D2000, due to mixing between
the rigid and soft phases. The DGEBA/PACM/D4000 mix-
tures exhibited the greatest dynamic heterogeneity ( DT
g /C24
225), and the PACM and D4000 components appear to be
strongly phase separated, with only minimal changes in the
component T
g’s with composition, demonstrating minimal
mixing between the two phases.
/C15 The ballistic impact resistance of the blended epoxies was
strongly dependent on the extent of dynamic heterogeneity.
Specifically, for the non-heterogeneous single T
g DGEBA/
PACM/D230 and DGEBA/PACM/D400 blends, the tempera-
ture dependent ballistic penetration resistance simply corre-
lated with the difference between the impact temperature and
the resin T
g. These heterogeneous blends behaved similarly to
non-blended epoxy resins 36 by exhibiting a sharp rise in pen-
etration resistance when the measurement temperature is
approximately 60 8C below the T
g. For the most dynamically
heterogeneous DGEBA/PACM/D4000 blends, the ballistic per-
formance was found to generally follow a rule of mixtures,
and exhibited minimal improvements as a function of blend
composition, likely due to the large length scale of the phase
separation coupled with the poor intermixing between the
high T
g and low Tg phase in these blends. In contrast, the
dynamically heterogeneous DGEBA/PACM/D2000 blends,
which were optically transparent, exhibited a strong deviation
from rule of mixtures, with substantial improvements in the
ballistic impact resistance relative to the neat components
when the composition of the amine phase was approximately
50%.
/C15 Dynamically heterogeneous epoxy blends with a small scale
structure offers the potential for new transparent resin for-
mulations with impact resistance that can be improved
over military operational temperature ranges. The dynami-
cally heterogeneous DGEBA/PACM/D2000 blends with an
amine composition near 50% exhibited improved impact per-
formance relative to model structural resins over military
operational temperature ranges. The improved impact per-
formance was accompanied by a stronger temperature
dependent modulus. However, over most of the military tem-
perature range the DGEBA/PACM/D2000 blends exhibited a
similar modulus to the single T
g blends or a model structural
resin. Based on these results we conclude that homogeneous
epoxy formulation composed of blended monomers offers
minimal potential to exhibit improved impact performance
and follow the same temperature dependent trends as single
T
g non-blended formulations. However, dual glass transition
blends, with a controlled DTg between the individual compo-
nents, offers the potential to improve impact resistance in
extreme military temperature ranges as long as a ductile and
rigid phase are both present at the impact temperature.
