ABSTRACT: Recent nanoscale ballistic tests have shown the
applicability of nanomaterials for ballistic protection but have raised
questions regarding the nanoscale structure −property relationships
that contribute to the ballistic response. Herein, we report on
multimillion-atom reactive molecular dynamics simulations of the
supersonic impact, penetration, and failure of polyethylene (PE) and
polystyrene (PS) ultrathin ﬁlms. The simulated speci ﬁc penetration
energy ( E
p*) versus impact velocity predicts to within 15% the
experimentally determined Ep* for PS. For impact velocities less than
1k ms −1, a crazing/petalling failure mode is observed due to chain
disentanglement, transitioning to fragmentation coupled with large
amounts of adiabatic heating at velocities greater than 1 km s
−1.
Interestingly, the high entanglement density of PE provides enhanced
penetration resistance at low velocities, whereas increased adiabatic heating in PS promotes greater penetration resistance at elevated
velocities. By understanding nanoscale mechanisms of energy absorption, nanomaterials can be designed to provide superior
penetration resistance.
KEYWORDS: Molecular Dynamics, Energy Absorption, LIPIT, Ballistic Impact, Adiabatic Heating, Thin Film

To conclude, ballistic impacts of PE and PS thin ﬁlms are
studied via large-scale MD simulations to investigate the
dissipated energy, deformation and fracture response, and
temperature and pressure evolutions during impact. Several
factors were validated against LIPIT experiments, including
E
p*, entanglement in ﬂuence, and fracture behavior. Entangle-
ment density, MFC, and chain mobility were shown to be
inﬂuential factors on the ballistic behavior but require further
investigation to establish the complex relationships. Adiabatic
heating induces large temperature rises during impact,
especially in PS, causing PS to transition into the rubbery
phase, enhancing chain mobility. PE exhibited no bond
scission during impact and deformed via mechanisms of
chain pullout (via ρ
e and MFC). On the other hand, PS
exhibited increasing bond scission with increasing impact
velocity (high MFC), possibly contributing to greater E
p*
values at elevated impact speeds. At hypervelocity, a regime
not yet achievable via LIPIT, large magnitudes of E
p* were
observed for both PE and PS rivalling that of MLG. In
combination with experiments, these simulations provide
insights into the underlying molecular failure mechanisms
associated with nanoscale ballistic impacts and provide a useful
simulation tool for the design and development of impact
resistance nanomaterials.
■ ASSOCIATED CONTENT
