ABSTRACT: Matrix-free assemblies of polymer-grafted nanoparticles (PGNs)
enable mechanically robust materials for a variety of structural, electronic, and
optical applications. Recent quasi-static mechanical studies have identi ﬁed the
key parameters that enhance canopy entanglement and promote plasticity of the
PGNs below T
g. Here we experimentally explore the high-strain-rate shock
impact behavior of polystyrene grafted NPs and compare their energy absorption
capabilities to that of homopolystyrene for ﬁlm thicknesses ranging from 75 to
550 nm and for impact velocities from 350 to 800 m/s. Modeling reveals that the
initial shock compression results in a rapid temperature increase at the impact
site. The uniformity of this heating is consistent with observations of greater
kinetic energy absorption per mass ( E
p*) of thinner ﬁlms due to extensive visco-
plastic deformation of molten ﬁlm around the penetration site. Adiabatic heating is insu ﬃ cient to raise the temperature at the
exit surface of the thickest ﬁlms resulting in increased strain localization at the impact periphery with less melt elongation. The
extent and distribution of entanglements also in ﬂuence Ep*. Structurally, each NP acts as a giant cross-link node, coupling
surrounding nodes via the number of canopy chains per NP and the nature and number of entanglements between canopies
anchored to di ﬀerent NPs. Load sharing via this dual network, along with geometrical factors such as ﬁlm thickness, lead to
extreme Ep* arising from the sequence of instantaneous adiabatic shock heating followed by visco-plastic drawing of the ﬁlm by
the projectile. These observations elucidate the critical factors necessary to create robust polymer-nanocomposite
multifunctional ﬁlms.

CONCLUSIONS
The variation of the entanglement density throughout the ﬁlm,
the number of entanglements per canopy, and the total length
of the tethered chains all positively in ﬂuence the energy
absorbing abilities. Herein, the nodal nanoparticle cross-links
in SiO
2−PS231 apparently result in more polymer draw
around the periphery of the impact site due to the larger
number of e ﬀective entanglements between near-neighbor
PGNs than the nodal Fe
3O4 network in Fe 3O4−PS250
comprised of longer chains (250 kg/mol vs. 231 kg/mol) but
with smaller cores with many fewer chains grafted per node.
However, there is likely a diminishing return for increasing
core and canopy size to increase melt strength at these strain
rates due to the eventual onset of bond breakage either by
scission of entangled chains or by bond fracture at the
polymer−NP interface. Thus, the interplay of nanoparticle
shape, size, volume fraction, polymer graft density, and
polymer entanglement length on local segment mobility, as
well as their in ﬂuence on the number and spatial distribution
of entanglements and the nodal nanoparticle network combine
together to determine the energy dissipation, melt viscosity
and tenacity. Overall, the ability to blend nanoparticle
functionality with polymer responsivity under these extreme
shock events suggests substantial opportunities for multifunc-
tional protection systems to enhance a wide range of
technologies.
