Abstract This work presents a generalized structure
generation methodology for amorphous polymers by a
simulated polymerization technique and 21-step molecular
dynamics equilibration, which is particularly effective for
high-T
g polymers. The essential framework and parameters
of the techniques and algorithms are described in detail,
and example input scripts are provided for use with the
freely available Polymatic simulated polymerization code
and LAMMPS molecular dynamics package. The capa-
bilities of the methods are examined through application to
six linear, glassy polymers ranging in functionality,
polarity, and rigidity. Validation of the methodology is
provided by comparison of the simulations and experi-
ments for a variety of structural, adsorption, and thermal
properties, all of which showed excellent agreement with
available experimental data.

6 Conclusions
In this work, a computational methodology for structure
generation of amorphous polymers was presented, con-
sisting of a simulated polymerization algorithm and 21-step
molecular dynamics equilibration scheme. The algorithm
and parameters of the simulated polymerization were dis-
cussed in detail with a focus on its implementation in the
Polymatic code. Two parameters of the simulated poly-
merization, the molecular dynamics temperature and arti-
ﬁcial charges on reactive atoms, were determined to be the
most important for improving its completion and efﬁ-
ciency. Similar consideration was provided to the role of
the 21-step equilibration as a general scheme for effec-
tively and efﬁciently relaxing and compressing polymer
simulations to consistent and realistic ﬁnal densities.
Moreover, this scheme provides structures with predicted
ﬁnal densities shown to be consistent with experimental
data. The applicability of the presented methods was
illustrated for six linear, glassy polymers with varying
functionality, polarity, and rigidity: polystyrene (PS),
poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA), poly(ethylene tere-
phthalate) (PET), polycarbonate (PC), polyetherimide
(PEI), and a polymer of intrinsic microporosity (PIM-1).
Validation of the simulated polymerization and 21-step
molecular dynamics equilibration was provided by com-
parison of the simulations and experiments for a range of
properties. For example, structural properties, including
skeletal densities and structure factors, were shown to be in
excellent agreement with experimental data for all poly-
mers. In addition, the porosity of PIM-1 was examined
through gas adsorption isotherms and geometric measures
of surface area, which were consistent with experimental
results. Lastly, thermal properties like glass transition
temperatures and thermal expansion coefﬁcients were
examined for all polymers. Despite the fast cooling rates
required in the simulations, the simulated values agreed
well with the experimental data. Overall, the strong
agreement observed between the simulations and available
experimental results illustrated the validity of the presented
structure generation techniques.

This work demonstrates the vast potential of the pre-
sented structure generation methodology for simulations of
amorphous polymers. First and foremost, the generality
of the techniques has been illustrated for a wide range of
polymeric materials. It has been shown for structures with
a variety of connectivity and is particularly effective
for high- T
g polymers, despite their bulky structures and
slow relaxation times. Second, these methods allow for
predictive simulations to be performed knowing only the -
chemical structure. The 21-step molecular dynamics
equilibration can provide predicted ﬁnal densities consis-
tent with a wide range of experimental conditions. Third,
this work provides sufﬁcient details of the algorithms and
techniques used, as well as example input scripts for use
with the freely available Polymatic simulated polymeriza-
tion code and LAMMPS software. Through the synergism
of simulation and experiment, the predictive capability and
generality of the presented simulation methodology will
allow for improved understanding of the structure and
properties of amorphous polymers and their potential for a
variety of applications.
