Polymeric ﬁlms with greater impact and ballistic resistanc e are highly desired for numerous applications, but molecul ar
conﬁgurations that best address this need remain subject to debate. We study the resistance to ballistic impact of thin
polymer ﬁlms using coarse-grained molecular dynamics simu lations, investigating melts of linear polymer chains and
star polymers with varying number (2 ≤ f ≤ 16) and degree of polymerization (10 ≤ M ≤ 50) of the arms. We show
that increasing the number of arms f or the length of the arms M both result in greater speciﬁc penetration energy within
the parameter ranges studied. Greater interpenetration of chains in stars with larger f allows energy to be dissipated
predominantly through rearrangement of the stars internal ly, rather than chain sliding. During ﬁlm deformation, star s
with large f show higher energy absorption rates soon after contact with the projectile, whereas stars with larger M
have a delayed response where dissipation arises primarily from chain sliding, which results in signiﬁcant back face
deformation. Our results suggest that stars may be advantag eous for tuning energy dissipation mechanisms of ultra-thi n
ﬁlms. These ﬁndings set the stage for a topology-based strat egy for the design of impact-resistant polymer ﬁlms.
version accepted on Extreme Mechanics Letters

4. CONCLUSIONS
There is a growing interest in impact-resistant materials,
and thin ﬁlms in particular, but a theoretical knowledge of t he
mechanisms involved in energy dissipation is still lacking and
there is vast room for improvement in the design space of new
materials using computations. In the present paper, we show
that an increase in complexity of the molecular architectur e
can increase the impact resistance of thin polymer ﬁlms with
minimal effort. We simulate thin polymer ﬁlms composed of
melts of star polymers with varying number of arms f and
length of the arms M. We show that the energy absorbed by
the ﬁlm during a projectile-impact test at extreme deformation
rates increases with increasing number of arms. We report an
increased performance of up to 16% between star polymers
with large f and linear polymer chains, paving the way for a
topology-controlled protocol to increase the impact resis tance
of thin polymer ﬁlms. In general, we observe that for both
higher f and M, increasing the molecular weight and size of
the molecules, less energy goes into intermolecular exchanges
during the projectile penetration. Conversely, more energ y is
stored into intramolecular rearrangements and material kinetic
energy, which we associate with a higher polymer mass being
extruded from the ﬁlm during the impact. While longer lin-
ear chains have higher penetration energy because they keep
pulling on the bullet after the penetration of the ﬁlm, star
polymers have immediate higher stopping power, an advan-
tage for ultra-thin ﬁlms applications. More in-depth studi es of
our ﬁnding will allow to tune and optimize these mechanisms
for varying impact conditions (like different radius or vel oc-
ity of the projectile). These investigations will deepen ou r
understanding of the role of polymer topology under extreme
deformations and will pave the way for applications such as
improved body armors and impact-resistant coatings.
