ABSTRACT: Polymer-inorganic nanocomposites based on poly-
mer-grafted nanocrystals (PGNCs) are enabling technologically
relevant applications owing to their unique physical, chemical, and
mechanical properties. While diverse PGNC superstructures have
been realized through evaporation-driven self-assembly, this
approach presents multifaceted challenges in experimentally probing
and controlling assembly kinetics. Here, we report a kinetically
controlled assembly of binary superstructures from a homogeneous
disordered PGNC mixture utilizing solvent vapor annealing (SVA).
Using a NaZn
13-type superstructure as a model system, we
demonstrate that varying the solvent vapor pressure during SVA
allows for exquisite control of the rate and extent of PGNC
assembly, providing access to nearly complete kinetic pathways of
binary PGNC crystallization. Characterization of kinetically arrested intermediates reveals that assembly follows a multistep
crystallization pathway involving spinodal-like preordering of PGNCs prior to NaZn
13 nucleation. Our work opens up new avenues
for the synthesis of multicomponent PGNC superstructures exhibiting multifunctionalities and emergent properties through a
thorough understanding of kinetic pathways.

In conclusion, we show that, using SVA, the structure
evolution of homogeneous disordered mixtures of PGNCs to
ordered superstructures can be halted on-demand and analyzed
in detail. We establish that controlling the solvent vapor
pressure during SVA allows for exquisite control over the rate
and extent of PGNC assembly. Analysis of kinetically arrested
intermediates uncovers that the crystallization of NaZn
13-type
superstructures follows a multistep crystallization pathway
involving spinodal-like preordering of small PGNCs prior to
NaZn
13 nucleation, and the development of NaZn 13-type order
precedes superstructure densi ﬁcation. We envision that the
SVA approach is applicable to fabricating other complex
PGNC superstructures including quasicrystalline assemblies. 50
Our work not only provides an e ﬀective means of forming
multicomponent PGNC superstructures but also paves the way
toward better understanding and ultimately controlling the
kinetic pathways and superstructure selections for PGNC
assemblies.
