ABSTRACT
Chemicalstructuregovernsthebulkmaterialpropertiesofthermosetpolymersatthemacro-scale.Inthisstudy,
three different amine curing agents — aromatic, cyclo-aliphatic and aliphatic — are reacted with bisphenol-A
epoxide using a recently developed accelerated ReaxFF simulation approach for kinetically slow reactions.
Accelerated ReaxFF simulations provide reactants with energy (comparable to the barrier energy) to form a
stable transition state that, depending upon the proximity and the path of approach, leads to successful cross-
linking. While cyclic curing agents result in simulated polymers with local heterogeneities in the molecular
structurethatcanberesolvedbyannealing,strainratedependenceismanifestedprominentlyinpolymerswith
aliphaticcuringagentsandlessprominentinpolymerwitharomaticcuringagent.Basedonthegoodcorrelation
obtained between simulations and experiments, this work demonstrates that accelerated cross-linking and vir-
tual testing of the polymer can capture the translation of variable chemical structure to thermo-mechanical
properties of thermosets.

4. Conclusions
Anewlydevelopedmethodtosimulatereactionswithslowkinetics
was developed within the framework of ReaxFF was used to simulate
polymerization of bisphenol A epoxide with aromatic, cyclo-aliphatic
and aliphatic amine curing agents. The polymers formed were then
analyzed for thermo-mechanical properties, and a good agreement be-
tween the experiments and the simulations was observed. It was also
seen that simulated polymers with cyclic amine (aromatic and cyclo-
aliphatic) had more local heterogeneities as compared to aliphatic
amines. An annealing process was employed to eliminate these local
heterogeneities. The mechanical response of the polymer showed that
cyclic amines were less affected by higher strain rates as compared to
aliphatic amines. The glass transition temperatures were in good
agreementwith the experiments,whereas thesimulated coefficientsof
thermal expansion were systematically lower than the experimental
results.Usingthedevelopedtools,thethermo-mechanicalpropertiesof
epoxies manufactured with different monomers can be examined. As
these properties are controlled by the molecular architecture, by
varying the curing temperature and additional energy (E
rest) provided
for accelerated ReaxFF, simulations can help in replicating the prop-
ertiesofdifferentpolymersthatwerecuredatadifferenttemperature.
Another interesting application is the use of the virtually cross-linked
polymersforvirtualtestingunderdifferentregimessuchasmodulusat
differentstrainrates,densitiesatdifferenttemperatures,differentwater
contents,etc.Tofurtherimprovethecomparisonsbetweenexperiments
and simulations, curing of the epoxy can be experimentally monitored
during the polymerization reaction using infrared (IR) [48,49] or di-
electric spectroscopy [50,51]. This could help in targeting the exact
percentage cure for when simulating a particular reaction. Also, the
ewly developed accelerated ReaxFF can be further refined by in-
corporatingangularanddihedralconstraintsthatpotentiallyplayarole
in the polymerization.
