ABSTRACT: Distinct deformation mechanisms that emerge in
nanoscale enable the nanostructured materials to exhibit outstanding
speciﬁc mechanical properties. Here, we present superior micro-
structure- and strain-rate-dependent speci ﬁc penetration energy (up to
∼3.8 MJ kg
−1) in semicrystalline poly(vinylidene ﬂuoride-co-triﬂuoro-
ethylene) (P(VDF-TrFE)) thin ﬁlms subjected to high-velocity (100
ms −1 to 1 km s −1) microprojectile (diameter: 9.2 μm) impacts. The
geometric-conﬁnement-induced nanostructural evolutions enable the
sub-100 nm thick P(VDF-TrFE) ﬁlms to achieve high speci ﬁc
penetration energy with high strain delocalization across the broad
impact velocity range, superior to both bulk protective materials and
previously reported nanomaterials. This high speci ﬁc penetration
energy arises from the substantial stretching of the two-dimensionally
oriented highly mobile polymer chains that engage abundant viscoelastic and viscoplastic deformation mechanisms that are further
enhanced by the intermolecular dipole −dipole interactions. These key ﬁndings provide insights for using nanostructured
semicrystalline polymers in the development of lightweight, high-performance soft armors for extreme engineering applications.

In summary, we experimentally demonstrated the superior
dynamic performance of ultrathin P(VDF-TrFE) ﬁlms using an
advanced LIPIT technique and correlated their Ep* and strain
delocalization performance to the material ’sf a b r i c a t i o n
processes and their nanostructural evolution for the ﬁrst
time. The highest Ep* achieved for ultrathin P(VDF-TrFE)
ﬁlm is signi ﬁcantly higher than that of macroscopic protective
materials and previously studied nanomaterials. Geometric
conﬁnement in ultrathin ﬁlms hinders the crystallization
process and facilitates the polymer chains to orient parallel
to the ﬁlm surface. With the contribution of those highly
mobile two-dimensionally oriented polymer chains, extensive
viscoelastic and viscoplastic deformation occurs during
projectile penetration. The cumulative e ﬀects of relatively
stronger vdW forces from the dipole −dipole interactions
between polar C −F bonds in polymer chains oriented along
the stretching direction further strengthens and toughens the
P(VDF-TrFE) thin ﬁlms. Along with local adiabatic heating
within the strike region at high velocities, these deformation
processes e ﬀectively dissipate the kinetic energy of the
supersonic projectile. Our study opens novel design pathways
for fabricating lightweight, soft armor materials with superior
dynamic performance by employing nanoscale semicrystalline
polymeric ﬁlms with tailored micro/nanostructures.
