ABSTRACT: Two diﬀerent classes of hairy self-suspended nanoparticles in the melt
state, polymer-grafted nanoparticles (GNPs) and star polymers, are shown to display
universal dynamic behavior across a broad range of parameter space. Linear
viscoelastic measurements on well-characterized silica-poly(methyl acrylate) GNPs
with a ﬁxed core radius ( R
core) and grafting density (or number of arms f) but varying
arm degree of polymerization ( Narm) show two distinctly di ﬀerent regimes of
response. The colloidal Regime I with a small Narm (large core volume fraction) is
characterized by predominant low-frequency solidlike colloidal plateau and ultraslow
relaxation, while the polymeric Regime II with a large N
arm (small core volume
fractions) has a response dominated by the starlike relaxation of partially
interpenetrated arms. The transition between the two regimes is marked by a
crossover where both polymeric and colloidal modes are discerned albeit without a
distinct colloidal plateau. Similarly, polybutadiene multiarm stars also exhibit the
colloidal response of Regime I at very large f and small N
arm. The star arm retraction model and a simple scaling model of
nanoparticle escape from the cage of neighbors by overcoming a hopping potential barrier due to their elastic deformation
quantitatively describe the linear response of the polymeric and colloidal regimes, respectively, in all these cases. The dynamic
behavior of hairy nanoparticles of di ﬀerent chemistry and molecular characteristics, investigated here and reported in the
literature, can be mapped onto a universal dynamic diagram of f/[R
core
3/ν0)1/4] as a function of ( Narmν0 f)/(Rcore
3), where ν0 is
the monomeric volume. In this diagram, the two regimes are separated by a line where the hopping potential ΔUhop is equal to
the thermal energy, kBT. ΔUhop can be expressed as a function of the overcrowding parameter x (i.e., the ratio of f to the
maximum number of unperturbed chains with Narm that can ﬁll the volume occupied by the polymeric corona); hence, this
crossing is shown to occur when x = 1. For x > 1, we have colloidal Regime I with an overcrowded volume, stretched arms, and
ΔUhop > kBT, while polymeric Regime II is linked to x < 1. This single-material parameter x can provide the needed design
principle to tailor the dynamics of this class of soft materials across a wide range of applications from membranes for gas
separation to energy storage.
KEYWORDS: soft colloids, grafted nanoparticles, star polymers, linear rheology, hopping dynamics, jamming, overcrowding parameter
