The spontaneous organization of multicomponent micrometre-
sized colloids 1 or nanocrystals 2 into superlattices is of scientific
importance for understanding the assembly process on the nano-
metre scale and is of great interest for bottom-up fabrication of
functional devices. In particular, co-assembly of two types of
nanocrystal into binary nanocrystal superlattices (BNSLs) has
recently attracted significant attention 2–8, as this provides a low-
cost, programmable way to design metamaterials 4 with precisely
controlled properties that arise from the organization and inter-
actions of the constituent nanocrystal components 9. Although
challenging, the ability to grow and manipulate large-scale BNSLs
is critical for extensive exploration of this new class of material.
Here we report a general method of growing centimetre-scale,
uniform membranes of BNSLs that can readily be transferred to
arbitrary substrates. Our method is based on the liquid–air inter-
facial assembly of multicomponent nanocrystals and circumvents
the limitations associated with the current assembly strategies,
allowing integration of BNSLs on any substrate for the fabrica-
tion of nanocrystal-based devices10. We demonstrate the construc-
tion of magnetoresistive devices by incorporating large-area
(1.5 mm 3 2.5 mm) BNSL membranes; their magnetotransport
measurements clearly show that device magnetoresistance is
dependent on the structure (stoichiometry) of the BNSLs. The ability
to transfer BNSLs also allows the construction of free-standing
membranes and other complex architectures that have not been
accessible previously.

We have demonstrated that co-crystallization of multicomponent
nanocrystals at the liquid–air interface is a simple yet robust
approach to rapidly growing large-scale membranes of long-range-
ordered BNSLs. The ability to transfer BNSLs allows the fabrication
of nanocrystal-based devices, which will accelerate the exploration of
this new and important class of material. Given that this assembly
strategy is applicable to different nanocrystal combinations, we
anticipate that membranes of quasicrystalline BNSLs 17 and ternary
nanocrystal superlattices27 will also be grown by this method.
