ABSTRACT: We present a versatile systematic two-bead-per-
monomer coarse-grain modeling strategy for simulating the
thermomechanical behavior of methacrylate polymers at length
and time scales far exceeding atomistic simulations. We
establish generic bonded interaction parameters via Boltzmann
inversion of probability distributions obtained from the
common coarse-grain bead center locations of ﬁve di ﬀerent
methacrylate polymers. Distinguishing features of each
monomer side-chain group are captured using Lennard-Jones
nonbonded potentials with parameters speci ﬁed to match the
density and glass-transition temperature values obtained from
all-atomistic simulations. The developed force ﬁeld is validated
using Flory −Fox scaling relationships, self-di ﬀusion coeﬃ cients
of monomers, and modulus of elasticity for p(MMA). Our approach establishes a transferable, e ﬃ cient, and accurate scale-
bridging strategy for investigating the thermomechanics of copolymers, polymer blends, and nanocomposites.

4. CONCLUSIONS
We have presented a systematic methodology for generating a
thermomechanically consistent coarse-grain model and have
applied it to establish the universal parameters for methacrylate-
based polymers. The appealing transferable features of this CG
model arises from the choice of the locations for coarse-grain
bead centers, as well as by leveraging the common backbone
structure across the methacrylate monomers chosen, which
gives rise to universal bonded and nonbonded parameters along
the consistent backbone. The all-atomistic bonded distributions
for each homopolymer system show similar trends and can be
ﬁtted with simple analytical functions. We use the Iterative
Boltzmann Method to optimize the averaged CG bonded
potential terms to match the target all-atomistic average
distributions starting from the highest energy contributing
bond-length interaction to the lowest energy contributing
dihedral angles. Simply customizing the nonbonded parameters
and masses for the side-chain beads captures certain unique
monomer characteristics. We ﬁnd that this method can be used
to tune the model to precisely match the density and glass
transition behavior of each of the atomistic homopolymer
models without explicit charge or hydrogen bonding terms. We
verify the validity of the model by demonstrating that the
Flory−Fox ﬁtting constants of the molecular weight dependent
T
g are well correlated between the all-atomistic and coarse-
grained simulations. Additionally, elastic constants of the CG
model obtained for p(MMA) match experimental values for
this system.
The key contributions of our methodology and its
signiﬁcance can be summarized as follows. First, by decreasing
the number of degrees of freedom and using simple analytical
potentials, we are able to achieve a CG model that can run 150
to 700 times faster than the all-atomistic model, for example, on
the basis of a 300 monomer methacrylate system. Second, by
choosing common methacrylate monomers as a focus group of
tremendous importance in polymer science, we provide a
convincing approach for establishing transferable CG models
for subclasses of polymers that have common backbone
features and diverse material properties arising from side-
chain functionality. The simultaneous prediction of this set of
structural, dynamic, and thermomechanical objectives has not
been previously achieved with CG models of engineering
polymers that typically are parametrized for a single
homopolymer. Third, the comparative nature of the method-
ology identi ﬁes universal backbone attributes of a range of
methacrylate monomers and is readily applicable to copolymer
systems without the need to introduce new interface bonded
parameters due to our universal de ﬁnition of backbone and
side-chain force centers and potential terms. The versatility of
our model makes it particularly useful for the design of
nanoelectronics, nanocomposites and thin ﬁlms based on
copolymer materials where sequence and composition e ﬀects
remain to be fully understood and cannot be easily probed with
all-atom simulations or experiments.
