ABSTRACT: Matrix-free nanocomposites made from polymer-grafted nano-
particles (PGN) represent a paradigm shift in materials science because they
greatly improve nanoparticle dispersion and offer greater tunability over
rheological and mechanical properties in comparison to neat polymers. Utilizing
the full potential of PGNs requires a deeper understanding of how polymer graft
length, density, and chemistry influence interfacial interactions between particles.
There has been great progress in describing these effects with molecular dynamics
(MD). However, the limitations of the length and time scales of MD make it
prohibitively costly to study systems involving more than a few PGNs, even with
bead−spring coarse-grained models. Moreover, it remains unclear how to
properly address shortcomings of these models in describing the rate-dependent
constitutive response of polymers in a chemistry-specific fashion. Here, we
address some of these challenges by proposing a new modeling paradigm for PGNs using a strain-energy mapping framework
involving potential of mean force (PMF) calculations. In this approach, each nanoparticle is coarse grained into a representative
particle with chains treated implicitly, namely, the implicit chain particle model (ICPM). Using a chemistry-specific coarse-grained
molecular dynamics (CG-MD) model of poly(methyl methacrylate) as a testbed, we derive the effective interaction between
particles arranged in a close-packed lattice configuration by matching bulk dilation and compression strain-energy densities up to
failure. We establish an iterative optimization scheme to fine tune PMFs in the ICPM to accurately match the stress−strain behaviors
during dilation and compression tests. The strain-rate dependence of the mechanical work done is quantified to reveal that the
interparticle potential can be expressed with a strain-rate-dependent energy well depth that culminates in a simple power-law
Cowper−Symonds strain hardening model. Given the aggressive degree of coarse graining (∼1:10 000) involved, the scope and
limitations of the ICPM are cautiously discussed. Overall, the ICPM increases the computational speed by approximately 5−6 orders
of magnitude compared to the CG-MD models. This novel framework is foundational for particle-based simulations of PGNs and
their blends and accelerates the understanding and predictions of emergent properties of PGN materials.
■
