The influence of chain-level network architecture ( i.e., topology) on mechanics was explored for
unentangled polymer networks using a blend of coarse- grained molecular simulations and graph-theoretic
concepts. A simple extension of the Watts–Strogatz model is proposed to control the graph properties
of the network such that the corresponding physical properties can be studied with simulations. The
architecture of polymer networks assembled with a dynamic curing approach were compared with the
extended Watts–Strogatz model, and found to agree s urprisingly well. The final cured structures of
the dynamically-assembled networks were nearly an intermediate between lattice and random connections
due to restrictions imposed by the finite length of t he chains. Further, the uni-axial stress response,
character of the bond breaking, and non-affine displa cements of fully-cured glassy networks were analyzed
as a function of the degree of disorder i n the network architecture. It is shown that the architecture strongly
affects the network stability, flow stress, onset of b ond breaking, and ultimate stress while leaving the
modulus and yield point nearly unchanged. The result s show that internal restrictions imposed by the
network architecture alter the chain-level response through changes to the crosslink dynamics in the flow
regime and through the degree of coordinated chain failure at the ultimate stress. The properties considered
here are shown to be sensitive to even incremental chan ges to the architecture and, therefore, the overall
network architecture, beyond simp le defects, is predicted to be a meaningful physical parameter in the
mechanics of glassy polymer networks.

V. Conclusions
The connectivity of polymer networks was explored as a meso-
scale structural parameter of the material. For this purpose,
a simple non-dynamical model to generate polymer networks
was developed with the goal of synthetically controlling the
network topology. The new model was based in the well-known
Watts–Strogatz model, but with restrictions to make the resulting
structures compatible with polymer networks. Specifically, the
network structures produced by the model allow only topo-
logically close connections to form between crosslinker beads
to account for the finite length of linear chains, and respect the
chemical functionality of crosslinker beads. Generating struc-
tures in this way allowed the chain connectivity to be smoothly
varied from ordered to disordered network structures while
maintaining an otherwise ideal network without defects and at
full cure. Surprisingly, we found that much of the topological
character of networks created with independent simulations
of dynamical curing could be captured by this restricted
Watts–Strogatz model, even for differing chemical interactions,
thermodynamic conditions, and synthesis procedures. The networks
from the W–S model and dynamic method were shown to have
similar ‘clustering profiles’, where the first four terms of the profile
were captured well by the model.
Systematically altering the chain connectivity did not change
the density or linear mechanical properties of the glassy
networks until a critical number of edge swap moves, after
which the network abruptly became unstable. However, the
flow stress, the strain at the onset of bond breaking, and the
ultimate stress were smoothly changed as the network structure
became increasingly disordered. In the flow stress regime, a
mechanism was proposed in which the disordered network
connections enhanced the non-aﬃne motions of the crosslink
junctions, resulting in increased plasticity and higher stress.
It is proposed this result is similar to the eﬀect of non-aﬃnity in
other contexts where the irregular neighborhood at the atomic
scale increases dissipation and reduces elasticity. The onset of
chain scission began at high strains in ordered networks, and
decreased monotonically as disorder was introduced. This
eﬀect was rationalized by demonstrating that the strain at the
initial chain scission in the diﬀerent network structures can be
collapsed onto a single value corresponding to B1.7 of the
strain of the shortest covalent paths through the network.
Further, chain scission in the ordered structures was delayed
until almost the same strain as the ultimate stress, thereby
forcing many of the extended chains to break simultaneously
and strongly increase the ultimate stress.
Polymer network structures must occur between the lattice
and randomly-connected states. Critically, these results predict
the structure of real networks to fall along a region in which
the ultimate stress and other mechanical measures are very
sensitive to changes in the connected structure of the chains.
Therefore, our results suggest experimental control of network
architectures as a potentially powerful design parameter to
enhance mechanical performance and, conversely, that polymer
networks used in molecular simulations could give spurious
results in the absence of realistic connected structures.
