ABSTRACT: Improving the toughness of brittle epoxy while
keeping its high strength-to-weight ratio is challenging, as these
two properties work against each other. Fracture processes are
difficult to ascertain with experiments, as they occur at nanoscopic
lengths and time scales and require higher efficiency than what can
be attained with atomistic simulations. To overcome this challenge,
we utilize a recently developed chemistry specific coarse-grained
model to examine two different hardeners, diamine 4,4′-methylene-
bis(cyclohexylamine) (PACM) and propylene oxide diamine
(Jeffamine), to cure bisphenol A diglycidyl ether (DGEBA) at
varying stoichiometries and understand how hardener composition
influences the elasticity, yield strength, and fracture toughness of
epoxy resins. The results indicate that PACM mainly contributes to
the modulus and that long Jeffamine chains increase fracture
toughness by making the epoxy ductile, whereas short Jeffamine chains significantly improve the yield strength. Longer Jeffamines
also lead to larger voids and the formation of fibrils that carry a significant amount of stress and contribute to toughness.
Interestingly, the Ashby plots reveal that epoxies with intermediate-length Jeffamine chains (D800 and D2000) outperform other
systems, as the toughness enhancement from flexible Jeffamine chains and the stiffness due to PACM help to overcome the
strength−toughness trade-off. Our modeling framework and findings establish a path toward resin design from predictive multiscale
models with no empirical input and reveal new insights into the molecular failure mechanisms of epoxy resins.

■
CONCLUSION
In this paper, we successfully implemented the chemistry
specific CG-MD based framework and discussed the effect of
using a mixed hardener on the various mechanical and
structural properties of epoxy resins. The fracture energy is
predicted from molecular simulations employing continuum
scale theory. Moreover, we are able to find an optimal
Jeffamine chain, D800, which has not been studied before or
used commercially and which performs better than others.
Our findings illustrate the competing effect of two hardeners,
PACM and Jeffamine. The model predicts higher elastic
modulus and yield strength for epoxies with higher PACM
percentages. On the other hand, Jeffamine contributes to
extensibility, especially longer Jeffamine chains. This leads to
larger failure strain and thus higher fracture energy. Short
Jeffamine chains promote higher yield strength arising from the
uniformity of the networks. We dig deeper to understand the
failure mechanisms from the molecular viewpoint. Bond
scission and void formations were prominent in every epoxy
composition. We find that the majority of the scissions
happened during strain hardening in the system. Epoxies with
longer Jeffamine chain show an increase in void size and
number of voids at post-yield. We also discover that the change
in mechanical properties depends on material properties as
well as the network architecture of the cross-links. High
fracture toughness is observed for longer Jeffamine chain
epoxies. The computed K
Ic
value exhibited good agreement
with recent experimental results, thus demonstrating the
predictive power of the framework. We presented a
comparison between strength and toughness using Ashby plots
which reveals that the epoxies with D800 and D2000 perform
better than others. This can be further extended to study
disulfide based epoxy resins and hardeners.
