a b s t r a c t
Recent microscale ballistic experiments have revealed that multilayer graphene membranes exhibit
exceptionally high ballistic limit velocity and specific penetration energy. A key feature contributing to
the exceptional performance of these systems is the cone wave that develops at impact, which propagates
radially at a very high speed for ultra-light and stiff graphene membranes, distributing the kinetic energy
of the projectile away from the impact zone. Current theories on ballistic impact consider infinitely
wide membranes, and atomistic simulations involve very small projectiles and specimen dimensions,
and thus cannot ascertain whether microscale ballistics observations are scalable and size-independent.
Here, we discover a particular size effect due to the reflection of cone wave that has not been previously
observed or considered. We present molecular dynamics simulations showing that there exists a critical
membrane size below which the cone wave reflections from the boundaries induce perforation; a phe-
omenon that is particularly relevant for microballistic testing of graphene membranes. We present an
analytical relationship, verified by simulation data, which predicts the critical membrane size simply as a
function of the projectile size, membrane thickness and the ratio of the projectile and membrane densities.
Our findings provide timely guidance for future microscale experiments and atomistic simulations for
accurate characterization of the impact performance of 2D nanomaterials.

4. Conclusions
The cone wave developed in the wake of impact upon mem-
brane materials dissipates the kinetic energy of the projectile by
propagating away from the impact zone on one hand, but on the
other hand, when it has enough time to return from the fixed
boundary, it reduces the projectile proof capability of the mem-
brane. To the best of our knowledge, for the first time, we observe
and study the cone wave reflection induced size effect of graphene
membrane under ballistic impact through simulations and theo-
retical models. The proposed theoretical analysis fills the gap for
finite membrane behavior during projectile impact process. The
critical relationship between the membrane size and the projectile
size is found to depend only upon the density ratio of the projec-
tile and the membrane and the membrane thickness. The study
reveals that in the microballistic experiments, when the sample is
ultra-thin and the lateral sample span is small, the reflected wave
would play its own effect on the failure of samples, and that its
effect would be maximum for circular free-standing membrane
geometries. Future microballistic experiments could shed light
on the behavior of different thin membrane materials including
polycrystalline systems with grain boundaries. The critical size
relationship obtained here provides guidance for future ballistic
barrier geometric designs.
