ABSTRACT: Matrix-free, polymer-grafted nanoparticle (PGN) assemblies
show promise for a wide array of structural, photonic, and electrical
applications. We examine the modulus, yield strength, and crazing of
assemblies of polystyrene grafted Fe
3O4 (Fe3O4-PS) at low graft density ( Σ
< 0.15 chains/nm 2) where chain entanglements are maximized. From the
wrinkling−cracking method (WCM) we show that modulus ( E) and yield
stress ( σy) are independent of nanoscale ﬁlm thickness (70 < hf < 250 nm)
and graft molecular weight (30 kDa < MW < 370 kDa) and in good
agreement with predictions from e ﬀective medium theory. Furthermore, thin ﬁlm craze observations from TEM imply two
critical length scales for maximum deformability of matrix-free PGN assemblies: (1) PGN core size should be less than the
critical length scale of the craze microstructure, and (2) near-neighbor entanglements are optimized for the lowest graft length
(N) where the PGN architecture exhibit intermediate graft densities ( r
0Σ0.5 ∼ 3−6 and N/Ne ∼ 4−6). These ﬁndings provide a
foundation for optimizing designs that simultaneously maximize inorganic volume fraction, processability, and mechanical
robustness for PGN thin ﬁlm assemblies.

■ CONCLUSIONS
Ascertaining the constraints on PGN architecture imposed by
satisfactory mechanical performance is crucial to developing
these materials for numerous applications. To complement
prior reports of matrix free PGN assemblies with large core and
graft density, we examined PGNs assemblies of small core and
low graft density (Fe
3O4-PS PGNs: r0 = 3.85 nm, Σ < 0.15
chains/nm2). The brush scaling of these sparsely grafted PGNs
agreed favorably with solution PGN models in good solvents
(toluene) conﬁrming SDPB canopies ( r
c ≤ r0). As anticipated,
such relaxed solution conformations enabled extensive
entanglement between neighoring PGNs and continuous
assemblies. Modulus ( E) and yield stress ( σy)w e r e
independent of ﬁlm thickness (70 < hf < 250 nm), con ﬁrming
observations were not perturbed by surface con ﬁnement.
EPGN/EPS ≈ 1.11 and σy,PGN/σy,PS ≈ 0.44, which are in good
agreement with e ﬀective medium theory (Hashin −Shtrikman
(HS) lower bound) and local stress enhancement due to the
diﬀerent moduli of the nanoparticle and PS. Similar to pure PS,
a transition from brittle fracture to crazing occurs for grafts
>110 kDa, and stable craze extension is seen above 200 kDa.
From these experiments, two critical length scales are deduced
that bound deformability of matrix free PGN assemblies. First,
undeformable PGN core should be less than the critical length
s c a l eo ft h ec r a z em i c r o s t r u c t u r et oa v o i dn a n o p a r t i c l e
jamming at the craze boundary. Second, the minimum chain
length to form near-neighbor entanglements occurs at
intermediate graft densities ( r
0Σ0.5 ∼ 3−6 and N/Ne ∼ 4−6).
In general, additional experimental studies and simulations
are necessary to re ﬁ ne these relationships. For example,
optimizing yield strength necessitates a more complete
understanding of the relative impact of the strength of the
nanoparticle−polymer interface, an increased propensity for
cavitation due to inhomogeneities in segment density
surrounding the nanoparticle, and the role of local stress
concentration due to the di ﬀerent moduli of the constituents.
Enhancing mechanical energy dissipation and toughness
requires additional insight into how PGN architecture alters
entanglement between adjacent PGNs, determines mass
redistribution within the matrix free assembly, and alters the
processes dominating homogeneous and heterogeneous modes
of deformation in the entangled canopies speci ﬁcally
surrounding ordered assemblies. The critical length scales at
the craze boundary and for near-neighbor entanglements are
clear from both empirical and thermodynamic arguments, but
more directed synthesis in con junction with theoretical
modeling is necessary to re ﬁ ne this data. Because of the
extensive design space of matrix free PGN assemblies, which in
addition to r
0, Σ, and N includes polymer chemistry, mixed
chain canopies, mixed PGN assemblies, ordered morphologies
in inorganic cores, alignment of anisotropic PGNs, etc., this
expanded fundamental understanding is necessary to deter-
mine optimized designs which simultaneously maximizes
inorganic volume fraction, polymeric processability, and
mechanical robustness.
■ ASSOCIATED CONTENT
