For glass-forming polymers, direct quantitative comparison of atomistically
detailed molecular dynamics simulations with thermomechanical experi-
ments is hindered by the vast mismatch between the accessible timescales.
Recently, the authors demonstrated the successful application of the time–
temperature superposition (TTS) principle to perform such a comparison for
the volumetric properties of an epoxy network. Here, the local translational
dynamics of the same network is computationally followed-up and studied.
The mean squared displacement (MSD) and time-scaling exponent trends
of select atoms of the network are calculated over a temperature range that
spans the glass transition. Using TTS, both trends collapse onto master
curves that relate the reduced MSD and time-scaling exponent to the reduced
time at a reference temperature. Because the reduced time of these compu-
tational master curves extends to 10
9 s, they can be directly compared with
experimental creep compliance for the same material from the literature. A
quantitative comparison of the three master curves is performed to provide
an integrated view that relates atomic-level dynamics with macroscopic
thermomechanics. The time-shift factors needed for TTS in simulation show
excellent agreement with experiment in the literature, further establishing the
veracity of the approach.

5. Conclusions
To summarize, we studied the MSD trends of two sets of atoms
that differ in their topological constraints, in a cross-linked
epoxy network using atomistic MD simulations. For both the
sets, we find that the MSD trends below the T
g show a rela-
tively low time-dependence, which is characteristic of the glassy
behavior and is consistent with previous work. [19] Above the Tg,
there is a sharp increase in the MSD trends with time, and peak
time-dependences of about t
0.5 are seen. Finally, at longer times
in the rubbery regime, the MSD trends show plateauing due to
topological localization. These observations are corroborated by
the behavior of the time-scaling exponent trends.

We find that TTS can be used for both the MSD and time-
scaling exponent trends to form master curves. The temporal
features of the reduced master curves in simulations show excel-
lent quantitative agreement with the experimental creep compli-
ance master curve in the literature.
[16] We show that the molec-
ular origin of the onset of the rubbery plateau corresponds to the
point where diffusive behavior of the atoms maximizes. We also
show that the atoms which differ in their topological constraints
exhibit asynchronous dynamics. We have called this feature
TIA dynamics and have used this to identify the soft bounda-
ries for the transition between the glassy, transition, and rubbery
regimes in the TTS-reduced time-space. Furthermore, we find
that the time-shift factors needed to obtain the master curves
using simulation data show excellent agreement with those
obtained from both experimental data
[16] in the literature and
our recent work[9] on the specific volume–cooling rate analysis.
Altogether, such quantitative comparison between atomistic
MD simulations and experiments presents an integrated view
relating the MD of the network with its macroscale viscoelastic
characterization. Here, we show empirical evidence that such
an approach is indeed productive. To the best of our knowledge,
this is the first such report for network polymers.

Besides presenting a possible method to extend nanosecond
simulations to macroscale timescales, these results should also
be of interest to experimentalists. Many measurement tech-
niques in current use infer structure and properties from the
atomistic level dynamics, for example, NMR and quasi-elastic
neutron scattering. The results obtained here indicate that meas-
urements of higher level segmental features could also be useful.
In the literature,
[68] a decoupling of the segmental and chain
dynamics for various polymers has been reported, which
causes a breakdown in thermorheological simplicity and a
failure of TTS. We believe that due to the elevated temperatures
used in our simulations and the highly cross-linked nature
of the network, the two modes of dynamics remain coupled.
