ABSTRACT: Molecular simulations are used to show that an entanglement
network exists in nonconcatenated ring polymers of su ﬃ ciently long contour
length when they are cooled down well below the glass transition
temperature. The entanglement network consists of only a fraction of the
topological constraints that force ring polymers to be in self-similar globular
conformations. The entanglement n etwork can support stable craze
formation in ring polymer glass under tensile loading. The structural features
of the ring polymer craze and the drawing stress during the craze formation
are related to the underlying entanglement network by generalizing traditional models for the crazing in linear polymer glass. The
computer simulations and theoretical analysis demonstrate tuning polymer topology as a promising way to manipulate the
mechanical properties of traditional plastic materials.

ring polymer craze allows us to quantitatively describe the
relation between the entanglement network and structural
features of the ring polymer craze. The constant drawing stress
S during craze growth is related to ⟨D
0⟩R and therefore de
R. The
craze growth model based on void propagation allows us to
quantitatively account for the change in the drawing stress as
the polymer topology changes from linear to ring. The value of
N
e
R for the entanglement network in the crazing of ring
polymers is further validated by a set of perturbative
simulations with open ends introduced and another set of
perturbative simulations of pulling internal chain segments
with ﬁxed monomers.

We hope that the computational work and theoretical
analysis presented here will motivate experimentalists to cool
down their ring polymer samples and carry out crazing
experiments to con ﬁrm our ﬁndings. The relation N
e
R =
Ne(ΛR/ΛL)3/2 can be used to characterize the entanglement
network in glassy ring polymers. We anticipate that future
computational and theoretical research as well as experiments
will further clarify the relation between polymer topology and
glassy polymer mechanics, which o ﬀers a novel pathway to
manipulate the mechanical properties of traditional plastic
materials.
