ABSTRACT: RAFT (reversible addition −fragmentation chain transfer) poly-
merization has been widely used to synthesize di ﬀerent polymer architectures
such as polymer brushes on nanoparticles for incorporation into polymer
nanocomposites. It is believed that these polymer brushes, with the same
chemistry as the matrix polymer, can be employed to improve ﬁller dispersion by
compatibilizing unfavorable enthal pic interactions between the inorganic
nanoparticles and their organic host matrices. However, monomodal brush
graft nanoparticles are found to aggregate into a range of isotropic and
anisotropic morphologies, formed due to a delicate balance between enthalpic
and entropic interfacial interactions. This coupling of enthalpy and entropy leaves
only a small window of graft densities and molecular weights to obtain randomly dispersed ﬁller morphologies. These issues can
be countered by using a bimodal polymer brush that contains a small number of long homopolymer chains that can entangle, and
a high density of short brushes that screens the particle/particle attraction, thereby aiding in decoupling the interfacial enthalpic
and entropic interactions. In the present work, we demonstrate a robust step-by-step technique using RAFT polymerization to
synthesize these bidisperse/bimodal polymer brush-anchored nanoparticles. A layer of dense brush of the ﬁrst population was
initially prepared using surface-initiated RAFT polymerization from colloidal silica nanoparticles. After cleavage of the chain
transfer agent from the ﬁrst population of chain ends, a second RAFT agent was attached onto the silica nanoparticles and then a
monomer, which may be the same or di ﬀerent from the ﬁrst brush, was polymerized. This versatile and widely applicable route
enables us to independently control the molecular variables of the attached chains, such as composition, molecular weights and
graft densities of the individual populations. The bimodal brush-grafted colloidal silica nanoparticles show superior dispersion
and interaction with a homopolymer matrix when compared to monomodal brush-grafted particles.

■ CONCLUSIONS
We have developed and demonstrated a robust technique using
RAFT polymerization to synthesize binary polymer brush-
anchored nanoparticles. A layer of dense brush constituting the
ﬁrst population was initially prepared using surface-initiated
RAFT polymerization from silica nanoparticles. The active
chain transfer agent at the chain ends was cleaved from the ﬁrst
population of polymer chains using a radical cross coupling
reaction. A second RAFT agent was attached to the portion of
silica surface not covered by the ﬁrst chains and was followed
by polymerization of a second monomer which could be the
same or di ﬀerent from the ﬁrst brush. This versatile route of
using step-by-step controlled polymerization techniques
enabled the independent control of the individual molecular
variables such as composition, molecular weight, molecular
weight distribution and gra ft density of the two chain
populations. The presence of the binary brush was con ﬁrmed
by GPC traces of the cleaved chains which showed two peaks
indicating a bimodal system. TEM analysis of the binary brush-
grafted nanoparticles showed that the particles were well
dispersed and free from agglomerates. Composites prepared
with bimodal brush-grafted nanoparticles showed improved
mechanical and thermal pr operties when compared to
monomodal-grafted nanoparticles, due to improved nano-
particle dispersion. The decoupled enthalpic and entropic
control over dispersion in these binary/bimodal brush-grafted
nanoparticles renders them potentially useful as functional
additives in a wide range of applications, such as in smart
lighting and stimuli responsive materials.
