ABSTRACT: Polymer-grafted nanoparticle (GNP) membranes show increased gas permeability relative to pure polymer
analogs, with this e ﬀect evidently tunable through systematic variations in the grafted polymer chain length and grafting density.
Additionally, these materials show less deleterious aging e ﬀects relative to the pure polymer. To better understand these issues,
we explore the solid-state mechanical properties of GNP layers using quartz crystal microbalance (QCM) spectroscopy, which
operates under conditions ( ≈5 MHz) that we believe are relevant to gas transport. The GNP ’s high-frequency storage moduli
exhibit a characteristic increase with increasing nanoparticle (NP) core loading, consistent with past work on the reinforcement
of polymers physically well mixed with bare NPs. However, these GNPs show a substantial, nonmonotonic decrease in loss as a
function of chain length (at ﬁxed grafting density), with the loss minimum corresponding to the chain length with the maximum
gas permeability. We speculate that this feature corresponds to a dynamical transition, where the GNP membranes go from a
jammed solid (colloid-like) to liquid-like (polymer-controlled) behavior with increasing chain length.

In summary, we investigated the high-frequency shear
properties of pure GNPs and their relation to tunable gas
transport enhancement. While the measured shear moduli of
the GNPs increase with increasing NP loading, as may be
expected, the loss moduli are suppressed relative to that of
the pure polymer. Furthermore, this suppression is found to
be nonmonotonic as a function of chain molecular weight and
to be directly correlated with the observed changes in gas
transport, potentially implying a common origin for these
phenomena. We hypothesize that both phenomena are related
to the penetrability of the grafted polymer corona; the chains
are noninterpenetrating for su ﬃ ciently short chains and high
grafting densities, resulting in increased gas di ﬀusion and an
overall sti ﬀer brush in the GNPs. This e ﬀect is reduced for
longer chain lengths and lower grafting densities, as the chains
are able to interpenetrate, and thus, the GNPs exhibit gas
transport and mechanical properties more akin to pure
polymer with dispersed NPs. Future work will be aimed at
developing a means to universally relate the properties of
GNPs with varying grafting parameters, including the chain M
n
and σ.
