abstract
Thermal and volumetric properties of mixed epoxy networks were characterized with molecular dy-
namics simulation. Atomistically detailed models of epoxy networks of diglycidyl ether of bisphenol
(DGEBA) cured with stoichiometric binary mixtures of a ﬂexible cross-linker poly(oxypropylene) diamine
(POP) and a stiff cross-linker 4,4
0-methylenebis(cyclohexylamine) (MCA), having molecular weights of
1987 and 210 g/mol respectively, were prepared. Epoxy networks formed by ﬁve different compositions
of the cross-linkers ranging from pure POP to pure MCA were constructed, and a network topology
analysis was carried out to verify that each network chain was connected to all other chains by a path of
bonded molecules. The glass transition temperature ( Tg), coefﬁcient of volume thermal expansion (CVTE),
heat capacity and thermal conductivity of these network structures were determined as a function of the
network composition. The simulated values of these properties are compared with predictions from
theories, empirical correlations and experiments from the literature. In general, it is observed that an
increase in the mass fraction of MCA leads to an increase in the T
g and a decrease in the CVTE;
furthermore, the breadth of the transition as exhibited by the change in the speci ﬁc volume, CVTE, and
heat capacity increases with an increase in the MCA content. The differences in the ﬂexibility of the
network components were analyzed using a number of quantitative measures. Using these results, a
molecular mechanism is proposed for the observation of the network composition dependence of the
breadth of the glass transition in these systems.
© 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

4. Conclusions
We have built detailed atomistic models of cross-linked net-
works formed by the epoxy monomer DGEBA and a mixture of two
cross-linkers, a ﬂexible POP and a stiff MCA. Mixed networks of ﬁve
compositions were prepared by varying the relative amounts of
POP and MCA. An analysis of the network topology was performed
to ensure that no local clusters exist, i.e., that all network junctions
in the system were connected by a path spanning bonded mole-
cules. The model structures were analyzed to determine a number
of volumetric and thermal properties as a function of the network
composition: volume-temperature behavior across the glass tran-
sition, the glass transition temperature, the coef ﬁcient of volume
thermal expansion, the heat capacity and the thermal conductivity.
These simulated values were determined solely by the network
topology and the intermolecular interactions in these systems. The
values of Tg determined from simulations were compared with
those predicted by a mixing rule, theories from the literature, and
experiments.

Our results, especially for the volumetric thermal expansion and
heat capacity, show a general trend that as the system temperature
is lowered, the transition from the rubbery to the glassy values is
sharper for systems with a higher fraction of the ﬂexible cross-
linker POP, while the transition is weaker and broader for the
systems with the higher fraction of the stiff cross-linker MCA. The
origin of this behavior was traced to differences in the ﬂexibility of
the cross-linker molecules. Speci ﬁcally, it was determined through
a number of quantitative measures that the POP molecule exhibited
a signi ﬁcant size change with temperature, whereas DGEBA
showed a smaller size change and the MCA molecule did not exhibit
any size change with temperature. As a result, the networks con-
sisting of only MCA cross-linkers must rely solely on the DGEBA
molecules to accommodate the large volume change experienced
at temperatures above the glass transition, thus resulting in a
broader transition. Our results show that the ﬂexibility of the cross-
linker has a signi ﬁcant effect on the thermal and volumetric
properties of the cross-linked network, especially on the breadth of
the glass transition. It is expected that this molecular characteristic
will also cause a signi ﬁcant impact on the mechanical properties of
these network systems; this study will be the topic of a forth-
coming publication.
