ABSTRACT
Grafting polymer chains to the surface of nanoparticles overcomes the challenge of nanoparticle dispersion within nanocomposites and estab-
lishes high-volume fractions that are found to enable enhanced material mechanical properties. This study utilizes coarse-grained molecular
dynamics simulations to quantify how the shear modulus of polymer-grafted nanoparticle (PGN) systems in their glassy state depends on
parameters such as strain rate, nanoparticle size, grafting density, and chain length. The results are interpreted through further analysis of
the dynamics of chain conformations and volume fraction arguments. The volume fraction of nanoparticles is found to be the most influ-
ential variable in deciding the shear modulus of PGN systems. A simple rule of mixture is utilized to express the monotonic dependence of
shear modulus on the volume fraction of nanoparticles. Due to the reinforcing effect of nanoparticles, shortening the grafted chains results
in a higher shear modulus in PGNs, which is not seen in linear systems. These results offer timely insight into calibrating molecular design
parameters for achieving the desired mechanical properties in PGNs.
Published under an exclusive license by AIP Publishing. https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0188494

IV. CONCLUSION
This study characterizes the shear mechanical response of poly-
mer grafted nanoparticles (PGNs) by obtaining the shear modulus
(G) through molecular dynamics simulations. The shear rate of
deformation influences the response of the systems by increas-
ing G as the rate is increased. This trend is seen to decompose
at large shear rates, justified by the relatively high corresponding
error of these points due to heightened simulation noise. As the
grafted polymer chain length decreases, G increases due to effec-
tive stiffening, which is seen through a conformational analysis. The
dynamics of chain conformations reveal distinct regions of caged
monomer motion in larger nanoparticle systems, which also con-
tributes to the enhanced values of G. Chain conformations of large
nanoparticle systems reveal poor solvent conditions in the inter-
stitial pockets of the PGNs. This phenomenon is expected to be a
result of the availability of free volume in these regions, stemming
from a reduction in nanoparticle surface curvature. The curva-
ture of the nanoparticle surface introduces additional confining
effects, leading to the elongation of the end-to-end distances most
prominently in long polymer chains. The size of the nanoparticle
displays an expected effect of increased G for larger nanoparticles.
The reason for this relationship again primarily stems from the
increase in the volume fraction of nanoparticles. To further under-
stand the relationship between the volume fractions of nanoparticles
and shear modulus, a simple rule of mixtures formulation is used
to model G as a function of ΦNP. The qualitative analysis of this
trend is verified by recent experimental work. However, quanti-
tative disparities warrant a continued investigation into systems
approaching the upper bounds of ΦNP. Furthermore, the para-
meters not addressed in this study, such as grafted density and
polymer chemistry, require further examination into their effects
on G. The insights provided by this research add to the ongoing
development of PGN simulations for future studies. The simu-
lations and results presented here advocate for the expansion of
comprehensive models that capture intricate details from shear
mechanical properties to tensile strength and toughness charac-
terization of prior research findings. In conclusion, the thorough
parametric study conducted in this research not only contributes
to advances in understanding the shear mechanical properties of
PGNs below their glass transition temperature but also paves the
way for new insights into the intricate attributes of the PGN material
response.
