The LIPIT results show that polymer entanglements alone
do not enhance toughness since the entanglement density
increases with molecular mass of the grafted chains. Conver-
sely, nanoparticle jamming alone cannot describe the
enhanced toughness since jamming is more pronounced with
shorter grafted chains. These results would suggest that the
enhancement in toughness seen for the 96 kg mol
/C0 1 system
requires synergy of these two mechanisms of energy dissipa-
tion. The polymer-dominated response is augmented by a
hierarchical relaxation mechanism where the highly localized
chain segment retraction is followed by a colloidal relaxation
process over a larger length scale as revealed by the XPCS
results.
29 XPCS and QENS measurements highlight the
enhanced dynamics at this transition, and they point to a
correlation between chain dynamics and material toughness.
While our results indicate that it would be quite challenging for
an existing polymer-based impact mitigating material to be
useful over a broad range of deformation rates, this seminal
work has begun to explore the remarkable and highly tunable
mechanical properties of PGNs. There is vast potential in
leveraging this mechanism to design polymeric materials with
dynamically tunable molecular response that maximizes
impact mitigation performance.

Conflicts of interest
Certain commercial equipment, instruments, or materials are
identified in this paper in order to specify the experimental
procedure adequately. Such identification is not intended to
imply recommendation or endorsement by NIST, nor is it
intended to imply that the materials or equipment identified
are necessarily the best available for the purpose.

Acknowledgements
The research used resources of the Advanced Photon Source
and the Center for Nanoscale Materials, U.S. Department of
Energy (DOE) Oﬃce of Science User Facilities operated for the
DOE Oﬃce of Science by Argonne National Laboratory under
Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357. Financial support for this
work at Columbia (MJ, SKK) was provided by the Department
of Energy under grant DE-SC0021272. Access to HFBS
was provided by the Center for High Resolution Neutron
