ABSTRACT: Ultrathin ﬁlms containing polymer-grafted
nanoparticles (PGNs) show promise for use in hybrid
electronics and high energy density materials. In this work,
we use a coarse-grained model to simulate a hexagonally
packed monolayer of PGNs adsorbed on a smooth surface
that is attractive to both nanoparticles and polymer chains.
We ﬁnd that decreasing graft density at the same graft length
increases interpenetration of the polymer-grafted layers, as
expected. We quantify both overall and interparticle
entanglements (between polymers grafted to di ﬀerent
PGNs). While the higher graft density particles have a higher
overall number of entanglements per chain, the lower graft density particles have higher interparticle entanglements per chain
due to their increased chain interpenetration. Finally, we apply uniaxial tensile deformation to the monolayers; the peak stress
occurs at lower strain values for higher graft density particles, which is attributed to the relatively lower number of interparticle
entanglements. Our analysis provides a molecular picture of how decreasing graft density leads to better interpenetration,
increased interparticle entanglements, and increased toughness of PGN monolayers, though it can lead to slightly less uniformly
spaced monolayers, in agreement with previous experimental observations. These tradeo ﬀs are crucial to understand for the
design of robust, well-ordered inorganic −organic hybrid ﬁlms.

■ CONCLUSIONS
Monolayers of hexagonally packed PGNs adsorbed on a wall
were simulated in the melt state, considering particles with
long grafted chains at moderate and high graft density, and
short grafted chains at moderate and high graft density. The
stability of the nanoparticle arrangement as well as PGN
interdigitation was analyzed from pair distribution functions.
Decreasing graft density increases interdigitation between
PGNs and slightly decreases the degree of order of the
nanoparticles. For long-chain systems, we quanti ﬁed entangle-
ments and found that high graft density PGNs have a higher
average number of entanglements, but they have fewer
interparticle entanglements per chain. This is due to the lesser
degree of PGN interpenetration at high graft density.
Additionally, we showed two-dimensional maps of entangle-
ment density, showing entanglements tend to form in the
interstitial regions further from particle surfaces, especially for
high graft density systems in which the chain conformations
are more stretched. Finally, we applied uniaxial deformation to
show the impact of entanglements on mechanical behavior.
The short graft length PGN monolayers fail at relatively low
strain, and the behavior is dependent on the strain direction.
Considering the long-chain (entangled) systems, the lower
graft density system is tougher, failing at higher stress and
higher strain than the high graft density system. The high graft
density system had a higher number of entanglements but a
lower number of interparticle entanglements per chain. Thus,
we attribute the increased toughness at moderate graft density
to the increased interdigitation and interparticle entanglement
formation, rather than the overall number of entanglements.
We therefore suggest that a detailed understanding and
analysis of the entanglemen t network and interparticle
entanglements is necessary in understanding the spacing and
mechanical properties of PGN materials. Such an analysis may
also be applied to simulations of star polymers or microphase-
separated diblock copolymers. In future work, we plan to study
glassy systems and more directly map to experimental
materials.
