Abstract: We studied the effect of temperature on self-assembly of monodisperse colloidal nanocrystals
into single-component and binary superlattices. Temperature, which serves as a weighting factor for the
internal energy ( U) and entropy ( S) contributions to the Helmholtz free energy F ) U - TS, allows tailoring
relative weights of the interparticle interactions and free-volume entropy during the formation of nanocrystal
superlattices. Temperature also provides a convenient tool for directing self-assembly of nanocrystals toward
desired superlattice structures. We found that temperature strongly affects the structures of binary
superlattices self-assembled from the mixtures of CdSe + PbS nanocrystals and PbSe + Pd nanocrystals.
In the former case, small Hamaker constants for CdSe and PbS nanocrystals led to a relatively simple
phase diagram, including only high-density NaZn
13-, AlB2-, and NaCl-type binary superlattices. In contrast,
binary superlattices self-assembled at different temperatures from PbSe and Pd nanocrystals showed a
number of low-density complex phases stabilized by strong local van der Waals interactions between Pd
nanocrystals. The structural diversity of nanoparticle superlattices is shown to be a result of the cooperative
effect of the entropy-driven crystallization and the interparticle interactions. Both ∆U and T∆S terms
associated with the superlattice formation should be of the same order of magnitude, with | ∆U| < |T∆S| for
the assembly of CdSe and PbS nanocrystals and | ∆U| > |T∆S| for the PbSe and Pd nanocrystals.

4. Conclusions
We have shown that temperature can be used as a convenient
tool for directing self-assembly of NCs into different single-
component and binary structures. A comparison of calculated
hard-sphere phase diagrams with our experimental studies of
NC assembly revealed signiﬁcantly richer behavior of NCs
compared to the non-interacting spherical particles. In the
absence of strong electrostatic interactions and vdW forces, as,
e.g., in the CdSe +PbS BNSLs, hard-sphere phase diagrams
correlated well with the behaviors of real NCs at high temper-
atures. On the other hand, self-assembly of BNSLs including
metal NCs (e.g., PbSe +Pd) cannot be rationalized using hard-
sphere models because of strong interparticle interactions.
Contrary to the case of CdSe-PbS NCs, entropy seems to play
only a limited role in the stabilization of PbSe-Pd BNSLs. The
observed structural diversity of BNSLs is a result of comparable
contributions of entropy-driven crystallization and interparticle
interactions, with the possibility of adjusting energetic and
entopic contributions through chemical design of NCs and with
many complex binary phases formed under appropriate experi-
mental conditions.
